.agents/commands/e2e.md, before:

---
description: Generate and run end-to-end tests with Playwright. Creates test journeys, runs tests, captures screenshots/videos/traces, and uploads artifacts.
---

# E2E Command

This command invokes the **e2e-runner** agent to generate, maintain, and execute end-to-end tests using Playwright.

## What This Command Does

1. **Generate Test Journeys** - Create Playwright tests for user flows
2. **Run E2E Tests** - Execute tests across browsers
3. **Capture Artifacts** - Screenshots, videos, traces on failures
4. **Upload Results** - HTML reports and JUnit XML
5. **Identify Flaky Tests** - Quarantine unstable tests

## When to Use

Use `/e2e` when:
- Testing critical user journeys (login, trading, payments)
- Verifying multi-step flows work end-to-end
- Testing UI interactions and navigation
- Validating integration between frontend and backend
- Preparing for production deployment

## How It Works

The e2e-runner agent will:

1. **Analyze user flow** and identify test scenarios
2. **Generate Playwright test** using Page Object Model pattern
3. **Run tests** across multiple browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari)
4. **Capture failures** with screenshots, videos, and traces
5. **Generate report** with results and artifacts
6. **Identify flaky tests** and recommend fixes

## Example Usage

```
User: /e2e Test the market search and view flow

Agent (e2e-runner):
# E2E Test Generation: Market Search and View Flow

## Test Scenario Identified

**User Journey:** Market Search → View Results → Click Market → View Details

**Test Coverage:**
1. Navigate to markets page
2. Perform semantic search
3. Verify search results
4. Click on first result
5. Verify market details page loads
6. Verify chart renders

## Generated Test Code

```typescript
// tests/e2e/markets/search-and-view.spec.ts
import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test'
import { MarketsPage } from '../../pages/MarketsPage'
import { MarketDetailsPage } from '../../pages/MarketDetailsPage'

test.describe('Market Search and View Flow', () => {
  test('user can search markets and view details', async ({ page }) => {
    // 1. Navigate to markets page
    const marketsPage = new MarketsPage(page)
    await marketsPage.goto()

    // Verify page loaded
    await expect(page).toHaveTitle(/Markets/)
    await expect(page.locator('h1')).toContainText('Markets')

    // 2. Perform semantic search
    await marketsPage.searchMarkets('election')

    // Wait for API response
    await page.waitForResponse(resp =>
      resp.url().includes('/api/markets/search') && resp.status() === 200
    )

    // 3. Verify search results
    const marketCards = marketsPage.marketCards
    await expect(marketCards.first()).toBeVisible()
    const resultCount = await marketCards.count()
    expect(resultCount).toBeGreaterThan(0)

    // Take screenshot of search results
    await page.screenshot({ path: 'artifacts/search-results.png' })

    // 4. Click on first result
    const firstMarketTitle = await marketCards.first().textContent()
    await marketCards.first().click()

    // 5. Verify market details page loads
    await expect(page).toHaveURL(/\/markets\/[a-z0-9-]+/)

    const detailsPage = new MarketDetailsPage(page)
    await expect(detailsPage.marketName).toBeVisible()
    await expect(detailsPage.marketDescription).toBeVisible()

    // 6. Verify chart renders
    await expect(detailsPage.priceChart).toBeVisible()

    // Verify market name matches
    const detailsTitle = await detailsPage.marketName.textContent()
    expect(detailsTitle?.toLowerCase()).toContain(
      firstMarketTitle?.toLowerCase().substring(0, 20) || ''
    )

    // Take screenshot of market details
    await page.screenshot({ path: 'artifacts/market-details.png' })
  })

  test('search with no results shows empty state', async ({ page }) => {
    const marketsPage = new MarketsPage(page)
    await marketsPage.goto()

    // Search for non-existent market
    await marketsPage.searchMarkets('xyznonexistentmarket123456')

    // Verify empty state
    await expect(page.locator('[data-testid="no-results"]')).toBeVisible()
    await expect(page.locator('[data-testid="no-results"]')).toContainText(
      /no.*results|no.*markets/i
    )

    const marketCount = await marketsPage.marketCards.count()
    expect(marketCount).toBe(0)
  })

  test('can clear search and see all markets again', async ({ page }) => {
    const marketsPage = new MarketsPage(page)
    await marketsPage.goto()

    // Initial market count
    const initialCount = await marketsPage.marketCards.count()

    // Perform search
    await marketsPage.searchMarkets('trump')
    await page.waitForLoadState('networkidle')

    // Verify filtered results
    const filteredCount = await marketsPage.marketCards.count()
    expect(filteredCount).toBeLessThan(initialCount)

    // Clear search
    await marketsPage.searchInput.clear()
    await page.waitForLoadState('networkidle')

    // Verify all markets shown again
    const finalCount = await marketsPage.marketCards.count()
    expect(finalCount).toBe(initialCount)
  })
})
```

## Running Tests

```bash
# Run the generated test
npx playwright test tests/e2e/markets/search-and-view.spec.ts

Running 3 tests using 3 workers

  ✓  [chromium] › search-and-view.spec.ts:5:3 › user can search markets and view details (4.2s)
  ✓  [chromium] › search-and-view.spec.ts:52:3 › search with no results shows empty state (1.8s)
  ✓  [chromium] › search-and-view.spec.ts:67:3 › can clear search and see all markets again (2.9s)

  3 passed (9.1s)

Artifacts generated:
- artifacts/search-results.png
- artifacts/market-details.png
- playwright-report/index.html
```

## Test Report

```
╔══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║                    E2E Test Results                          ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╣
║ Status:     ✅ ALL TESTS PASSED                              ║
║ Total:      3 tests                                          ║
║ Passed:     3 (100%)                                         ║
║ Failed:     0                                                ║
║ Flaky:      0                                                ║
║ Duration:   9.1s                                             ║
╚══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

Artifacts:
📸 Screenshots: 2 files
📹 Videos: 0 files (only on failure)
🔍 Traces: 0 files (only on failure)
📊 HTML Report: playwright-report/index.html

View report: npx playwright show-report
```

✅ E2E test suite ready for CI/CD integration!
```

## Test Artifacts

When tests run, the following artifacts are captured:

**On All Tests:**
- HTML Report with timeline and results
- JUnit XML for CI integration

**On Failure Only:**
- Screenshot of the failing state
- Video recording of the test
- Trace file for debugging (step-by-step replay)
- Network logs
- Console logs

## Viewing Artifacts

```bash
# View HTML report in browser
npx playwright show-report

# View specific trace file
npx playwright show-trace artifacts/trace-abc123.zip

# Screenshots are saved in artifacts/ directory
open artifacts/search-results.png
```

## Flaky Test Detection

If a test fails intermittently:

```
⚠️  FLAKY TEST DETECTED: tests/e2e/markets/trade.spec.ts

Test passed 7/10 runs (70% pass rate)

Common failure:
"Timeout waiting for element '[data-testid="confirm-btn"]'"

Recommended fixes:
1. Add explicit wait: await page.waitForSelector('[data-testid="confirm-btn"]')
2. Increase timeout: { timeout: 10000 }
3. Check for race conditions in component
4. Verify element is not hidden by animation

Quarantine recommendation: Mark as test.fixme() until fixed
```

## Browser Configuration

Tests run on multiple browsers by default:
- ✅ Chromium (Desktop Chrome)
- ✅ Firefox (Desktop)
- ✅ WebKit (Desktop Safari)
- ✅ Mobile Chrome (optional)

Configure in `playwright.config.ts` to adjust browsers.

## CI/CD Integration

Add to your CI pipeline:

```yaml
# .github/workflows/e2e.yml
- name: Install Playwright
  run: npx playwright install --with-deps

- name: Run E2E tests
  run: npx playwright test

- name: Upload artifacts
  if: always()
  uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
  with:
    name: playwright-report
    path: playwright-report/
```

## PMX-Specific Critical Flows

For PMX, prioritize these E2E tests:

**🔴 CRITICAL (Must Always Pass):**
1. User can connect wallet
2. User can browse markets
3. User can search markets (semantic search)
4. User can view market details
5. User can place trade (with test funds)
6. Market resolves correctly
7. User can withdraw funds

**🟡 IMPORTANT:**
1. Market creation flow
2. User profile updates
3. Real-time price updates
4. Chart rendering
5. Filter and sort markets
6. Mobile responsive layout

## Best Practices

**DO:**
- ✅ Use Page Object Model for maintainability
- ✅ Use data-testid attributes for selectors
- ✅ Wait for API responses, not arbitrary timeouts
- ✅ Test critical user journeys end-to-end
- ✅ Run tests before merging to main
- ✅ Review artifacts when tests fail

**DON'T:**
- ❌ Use brittle selectors (CSS classes can change)
- ❌ Test implementation details
- ❌ Run tests against production
- ❌ Ignore flaky tests
- ❌ Skip artifact review on failures
- ❌ Test every edge case with E2E (use unit tests)

## Important Notes

**CRITICAL for PMX:**
- E2E tests involving real money MUST run on testnet/staging only
- Never run trading tests against production
- Set `test.skip(process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production')` for financial tests
- Use test wallets with small test funds only

## Integration with Other Commands

- Use `/plan` to identify critical journeys to test
- Use `/tdd` for unit tests (faster, more granular)
- Use `/e2e` for integration and user journey tests
- Use `/code-review` to verify test quality

## Related Agents

This command invokes the `e2e-runner` agent located at:
`~/.claude/agents/e2e-runner.md`

## Quick Commands

```bash
# Run all E2E tests
npx playwright test

# Run specific test file
npx playwright test tests/e2e/markets/search.spec.ts

# Run in headed mode (see browser)
npx playwright test --headed

# Debug test
npx playwright test --debug

# Generate test code
npx playwright codegen http://localhost:3000

# View report
npx playwright show-report
```

Commit message:

commands: remove tool-home dependencies and fix command/path mismatches

.agents/commands/e2e.md, after:

---
description: Generate and run end-to-end tests with Playwright. Creates test journeys, runs tests, captures screenshots/videos/traces, and uploads artifacts.
---

# E2E Command

This command invokes an **e2e-runner role workflow** to generate, maintain, and execute end-to-end tests using Playwright.

## What This Command Does

1. **Generate Test Journeys** - Create Playwright tests for user flows
2. **Run E2E Tests** - Execute tests across browsers
3. **Capture Artifacts** - Screenshots, videos, traces on failures
4. **Upload Results** - HTML reports and JUnit XML
5. **Identify Flaky Tests** - Quarantine unstable tests

## When to Use

Use `/e2e` when:
- Testing critical user journeys (login, trading, payments)
- Verifying multi-step flows work end-to-end
- Testing UI interactions and navigation
- Validating integration between frontend and backend
- Preparing for production deployment

## How It Works

The E2E workflow will:

1. **Analyze user flow** and identify test scenarios
2. **Generate Playwright test** using Page Object Model pattern
3. **Run tests** across multiple browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari)
4. **Capture failures** with screenshots, videos, and traces
5. **Generate report** with results and artifacts
6. **Identify flaky tests** and recommend fixes

## Example Usage

```
User: /e2e Test the market search and view flow

Agent (e2e-runner):
# E2E Test Generation: Market Search and View Flow

## Test Scenario Identified

**User Journey:** Market Search → View Results → Click Market → View Details

**Test Coverage:**
1. Navigate to markets page
2. Perform semantic search
3. Verify search results
4. Click on first result
5. Verify market details page loads
6. Verify chart renders

## Generated Test Code

```typescript
// tests/e2e/markets/search-and-view.spec.ts
import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test'
import { MarketsPage } from '../../pages/MarketsPage'
import { MarketDetailsPage } from '../../pages/MarketDetailsPage'

test.describe('Market Search and View Flow', () => {
  test('user can search markets and view details', async ({ page }) => {
    // 1. Navigate to markets page
    const marketsPage = new MarketsPage(page)
    await marketsPage.goto()

    // Verify page loaded
    await expect(page).toHaveTitle(/Markets/)
    await expect(page.locator('h1')).toContainText('Markets')

    // 2. Perform semantic search
    await marketsPage.searchMarkets('election')

    // Wait for API response
    await page.waitForResponse(resp =>
      resp.url().includes('/api/markets/search') && resp.status() === 200
    )

    // 3. Verify search results
    const marketCards = marketsPage.marketCards
    await expect(marketCards.first()).toBeVisible()
    const resultCount = await marketCards.count()
    expect(resultCount).toBeGreaterThan(0)

    // Take screenshot of search results
    await page.screenshot({ path: 'artifacts/search-results.png' })

    // 4. Click on first result
    const firstMarketTitle = await marketCards.first().textContent()
    await marketCards.first().click()

    // 5. Verify market details page loads
    await expect(page).toHaveURL(/\/markets\/[a-z0-9-]+/)

    const detailsPage = new MarketDetailsPage(page)
    await expect(detailsPage.marketName).toBeVisible()
    await expect(detailsPage.marketDescription).toBeVisible()

    // 6. Verify chart renders
    await expect(detailsPage.priceChart).toBeVisible()

    // Verify market name matches
    const detailsTitle = await detailsPage.marketName.textContent()
    expect(detailsTitle?.toLowerCase()).toContain(
      firstMarketTitle?.toLowerCase().substring(0, 20) || ''
    )

    // Take screenshot of market details
    await page.screenshot({ path: 'artifacts/market-details.png' })
  })

  test('search with no results shows empty state', async ({ page }) => {
    const marketsPage = new MarketsPage(page)
    await marketsPage.goto()

    // Search for non-existent market
    await marketsPage.searchMarkets('xyznonexistentmarket123456')

    // Verify empty state
    await expect(page.locator('[data-testid="no-results"]')).toBeVisible()
    await expect(page.locator('[data-testid="no-results"]')).toContainText(
      /no.*results|no.*markets/i
    )

    const marketCount = await marketsPage.marketCards.count()
    expect(marketCount).toBe(0)
  })

  test('can clear search and see all markets again', async ({ page }) => {
    const marketsPage = new MarketsPage(page)
    await marketsPage.goto()

    // Initial market count
    const initialCount = await marketsPage.marketCards.count()

    // Perform search
    await marketsPage.searchMarkets('trump')
    await page.waitForLoadState('networkidle')

    // Verify filtered results
    const filteredCount = await marketsPage.marketCards.count()
    expect(filteredCount).toBeLessThan(initialCount)

    // Clear search
    await marketsPage.searchInput.clear()
    await page.waitForLoadState('networkidle')

    // Verify all markets shown again
    const finalCount = await marketsPage.marketCards.count()
    expect(finalCount).toBe(initialCount)
  })
})
```

## Running Tests

```bash
# Run the generated test
npx playwright test tests/e2e/markets/search-and-view.spec.ts

Running 3 tests using 3 workers

  ✓  [chromium] › search-and-view.spec.ts:5:3 › user can search markets and view details (4.2s)
  ✓  [chromium] › search-and-view.spec.ts:52:3 › search with no results shows empty state (1.8s)
  ✓  [chromium] › search-and-view.spec.ts:67:3 › can clear search and see all markets again (2.9s)

  3 passed (9.1s)

Artifacts generated:
- artifacts/search-results.png
- artifacts/market-details.png
- playwright-report/index.html
```

## Test Report

```
╔══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║                    E2E Test Results                          ║
╠══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╣
║ Status:     ✅ ALL TESTS PASSED                              ║
║ Total:      3 tests                                          ║
║ Passed:     3 (100%)                                         ║
║ Failed:     0                                                ║
║ Flaky:      0                                                ║
║ Duration:   9.1s                                             ║
╚══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

Artifacts:
📸 Screenshots: 2 files
📹 Videos: 0 files (only on failure)
🔍 Traces: 0 files (only on failure)
📊 HTML Report: playwright-report/index.html

View report: npx playwright show-report
```

✅ E2E test suite ready for CI/CD integration!
```

## Test Artifacts

When tests run, the following artifacts are captured:

**On All Tests:**
- HTML Report with timeline and results
- JUnit XML for CI integration

**On Failure Only:**
- Screenshot of the failing state
- Video recording of the test
- Trace file for debugging (step-by-step replay)
- Network logs
- Console logs

## Viewing Artifacts

```bash
# View HTML report in browser
npx playwright show-report

# View specific trace file
npx playwright show-trace artifacts/trace-abc123.zip

# Screenshots are saved in artifacts/ directory
open artifacts/search-results.png
```

## Flaky Test Detection

If a test fails intermittently:

```
⚠️  FLAKY TEST DETECTED: tests/e2e/markets/trade.spec.ts

Test passed 7/10 runs (70% pass rate)

Common failure:
"Timeout waiting for element '[data-testid="confirm-btn"]'"

Recommended fixes:
1. Add explicit wait: await page.waitForSelector('[data-testid="confirm-btn"]')
2. Increase timeout: { timeout: 10000 }
3. Check for race conditions in component
4. Verify element is not hidden by animation

Quarantine recommendation: Mark as test.fixme() until fixed
```

## Browser Configuration

Tests run on multiple browsers by default:
- ✅ Chromium (Desktop Chrome)
- ✅ Firefox (Desktop)
- ✅ WebKit (Desktop Safari)
- ✅ Mobile Chrome (optional)

Configure in `playwright.config.ts` to adjust browsers.

## CI/CD Integration

Add to your CI pipeline:

```yaml
# .github/workflows/e2e.yml
- name: Install Playwright
  run: npx playwright install --with-deps

- name: Run E2E tests
  run: npx playwright test

- name: Upload artifacts
  if: always()
  uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
  with:
    name: playwright-report
    path: playwright-report/
```

## PMX-Specific Critical Flows

For PMX, prioritize these E2E tests:

**🔴 CRITICAL (Must Always Pass):**
1. User can connect wallet
2. User can browse markets
3. User can search markets (semantic search)
4. User can view market details
5. User can place trade (with test funds)
6. Market resolves correctly
7. User can withdraw funds

**🟡 IMPORTANT:**
1. Market creation flow
2. User profile updates
3. Real-time price updates
4. Chart rendering
5. Filter and sort markets
6. Mobile responsive layout

## Best Practices

**DO:**
- ✅ Use Page Object Model for maintainability
- ✅ Use data-testid attributes for selectors
- ✅ Wait for API responses, not arbitrary timeouts
- ✅ Test critical user journeys end-to-end
- ✅ Run tests before merging to main
- ✅ Review artifacts when tests fail

**DON'T:**
- ❌ Use brittle selectors (CSS classes can change)
- ❌ Test implementation details
- ❌ Run tests against production
- ❌ Ignore flaky tests
- ❌ Skip artifact review on failures
- ❌ Test every edge case with E2E (use unit tests)

## Important Notes

**CRITICAL for PMX:**
- E2E tests involving real money MUST run on testnet/staging only
- Never run trading tests against production
- Set `test.skip(process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production')` for financial tests
- Use test wallets with small test funds only

## Integration with Other Commands

- Use `/plan` to identify critical journeys to test
- Use `/tdd` for unit tests (faster, more granular)
- Use `/e2e` for integration and user journey tests
- Use `/code-review` to verify test quality

## Related Roles

- Prefer an e2e-runner sub-agent if your tool supports it.
- If not, follow this document directly.
- Do not require tool-specific home paths to execute this command.

## Quick Commands

```bash
# Run all E2E tests
npx playwright test

# Run specific test file
npx playwright test tests/e2e/markets/search.spec.ts

# Run in headed mode (see browser)
npx playwright test --headed

# Debug test
npx playwright test --debug

# Generate test code
npx playwright codegen http://localhost:3000

# View report
npx playwright show-report
```
